So we notice we have an index.html file.
We're still in HTML and
we're building stuff for the browser.
HTML is not going anywhere.
I'm gonna turn on the wrap.
Okay, and in our index.html,
we have a relatively simple HTML file.
It's got a head with some stuff.
It's got a title, and it's got one little
div in the [LAUGH] body with an id on it,
and then it has this very important
line right here, an empty script tag.
[LAUGH] This tag is empty, but
it is referring to by its source attribute
a file called main.js that is
in the root of their directory.
That's the slashes starting here, main js.
And that is, basically,
Vite is going to put that in here, and
the browser is gonna think that it was
there all along, the code in that module.
And again, we've got to type module to
make sure that we're in ES module land.
So let us go look at that code,
main.js right here.
My gosh, can you really not remember
to just wrap everything, okay.
All right, [LAUGH] what's happening?
All right,
we've got a lot of import statements.
So we're definitely in ES module's land,
we got a module type.
We see this kind of syntax
that we saw before,
of importing a useful function or
method from another module.
In this case,
it's not an external package,
it is another file in this code base.
So it is the file counter.js that is
in the same directory that we are in.
And there's some other stuff going
on that's a little bit more unusual.
We're importing SVG files and CSS files.
And so this is a Vite thing where,
essentially, in our JavaScript,
we can be referring to all these
other resources, styles, and
images, and things like that,
that Vite then will figure out from
the ones that we're actually importing and
actually using.
If I have hypothetically a bajillion
GIFs in a folder, in a project,
hypothetically, Vite will only pull in
those images that I'm actually using or
those style sheets that
I'm actually using,
looking at all these
different import statements.
And of course, the tree of,
if I import something from counter,
then whatever counter needs to
import is also gonna be included.
And so what Vite is doing is kind of
leveraging a whole bunch of other tools to
give us this experience of just, okay, I
want that CSS, I want this image and that
image, and blah, blah, blah, and allow
us to work with that in our JavaScript.
And then we see this line right here,
which I don't know about you,
but makes me feel some kinda way.
[LAUGH] So again, this is like
a minimum viable Vite project.
[LAUGH] The idea here from the Vite
team is just to show people what is
the structure of the Vite app?
Not to necessarily show us how we
should be writing our JavaScript code.
But what is interesting is that
this kind of mimics with just some
vanilla JavaScript, query selectors,
and setting the inner HTML to a big,
long template literal.
Mimics a little bit what some
of these flashy frameworks,
these big things like React and whatever,
are doing, when they essentially
take a very simple, where did it go?
A very simple HTML file
with one element in it,
and put a whole bunch of
other stuff in it for us.
So this is not something
we would wanna be doing.
It's having a meaningless div element and
then setting inner HTML on it.
That's breaking a lot of, I think,
HTML and Web standards people's heart.
But [LAUGH] it is kinda pointing
us in the direction of,
if we start working
with bigger frameworks.
I mean, it's not that different
from really what they're gonna
be doing when they flesh
out our HTML with whatever
we have written in their
fancy framework syntax.
So that's one justification
of what's happening here.
But I don't know about you, I would feel
a lot more comfortable if as much of
this as possible was just in the HTML.
Are we on the same page about that?
Cool, so we can fix that in a minute.
But let's move on with our lives,
and let's see what's happening here.
So in this template literal, sorry.
>> I just have a quick question.
>> Yeah.
>> Is main.js, is that valid?
Is that all valid JavaScript without Vite,
or is Vite something special with this?
Is this-
>> So the JavaScript,
this up here without Vite's
kind of fanciness, these parts?
>> Okay, yeah, I didn't know if you get
it, that felt like importing a CSS file or
an image, I wasn't sure-
>> No,
there are certain things like JSON files,
for example, you can use their basically-
>> So that's.
>> Stringify JSON object.
But there's a little bit of magic
happening here in order to do some
conveniences of, for example, okay,
when I tell you to import this logo
from that SVG, give me the URL.
I would go to that, like the resolved
path to that resource, which may be
different in development and production,
for example, or so on and so forth.
So there is some magic happening here.
But the syntax of import statements and
importing stuff is JavaScripty.
And this syntax without the curly
braces here is also, fair, JavaScript.
We can talk about it a little bit later.
But this, with a JavaScript file,
like if I [COUGH] earlier in my Cowsay,
I did import  from, and
this is gonna not like it cuz it's like,
well, I don't have Cowsay, I mean,
all right, VS Code knows about it.
But the other option
that I have is to import
the entire module as
Cowsay with this syntax
where essentially I get
that whole Cowsay object.
So now I would do like Cowsay.say,
what have you.
Anyway, so there's a little bit more like,
that is JavaScript, that's not Vite,
but Vite is sort of using this JavaScripty
syntax to help us do other useful things.
Okay, so then we're selecting
our one element [LAUGH] and
injecting a bunch of HTML in it.
And in this HTML we are using some
Vite magic to get the resolved URL for
these images, or assets, if you will, and
put it into our HTML, so
that we can find those images or
the browser can find those images
when somebody looks at this page.
Which is how we get our very pretty,
where did it go?
Logos, exciting.
And same with the JavaScript logo.
And then we've got this code that's not
particularly different from a lot of
the stuff we've been doing,
where we call a function.
Where do we get that function?
We imported it from somewhere else,
and then we are giving,
passing in some,
in this case, element to it.
So this is not a whole lot different
than when we created our forms, or
set up our toggle switches,
or what have you.
So let's go look at counter and
see what that's doing.
And keeping in mind that,
yeah, all this page did,
all this app did, was we click a button,
and it counts for us.
And that is basically all that
functionality is coming from right here.
So there's hopefully nothing super
shocking going on in this code,
but again, minimum viable Vite.
[LAUGH] The idea here is that we have
a function that takes in an element,
does some stuff to it, and we are
exporting that function from this module,
so that it can be imported into main.
Okay, if I run my, what did I do here?
Did I edit something?
Yeah, backticks everywhere.
Okay, now,
>> Sorry,
I just saw your browser
change to your styling rules.
It added a bunch of semicolons,
my copy doesn't have them.
>> Indeed.
We will talk about that.
>> All right
>> A bit later.
Yeah, so VS Code is responsible for
that, well,
VS Code and
some friends that VS Code has access to.
So we are also in a much larger
environment than it would
seem right now when I run
this stuff in VS Code.
So when I save, it does some stuff,
we'll talk about that later.
Okay, so now, we have an idea of what is
actually happening when we run this code.
But I had quit my development server.
So that was just still in my browser.
It's not actually running.
Let's try to run it.
Npm run dev, which is gonna call Vite, and
it's gonna start a new local
server at whatever port.
And we can customize that and everything,
and this is the same
thing that we saw before.
But I can now mess with stuff and
have it be, for example-
>> What was
the command you just entered
to restart the server?
>> Yep, npm run dev.
>> Okay, got it.
>> npm run dev.
And what that command is doing might
differ from project to project,
but many, many projects that we
will find ourselves needing to
work on will have a dev command for
the dev server.
And often a build command for
doing all that fancy optimization and
stuff to create the production build.
Okay, so
anybody who watched Sesame Street?
Four [SOUND] the count, no?
Okay, so I just changed
the string that's in the button,
and boom, lo and behold,
no refresh, no nothing,
Vite just automagically
updated only the modules
that I changed in this
app that I'm running.
Now, it doesn't look that special because
we could have just edited this in HTML,
in this case.
But this becomes very, very useful when
you're working on a complex project
with lots of different modules, and
you don't wanna have to be redoing
everything every time you change
something that really slows you down.
Especially if there are a whole bunch of
tools involved in building the site to
the development server, and then that
could be a very slow iteration process.
So this is one of the main
advantages of Vite,
is you get this very quick,
which the name is French for quick or
fast, via the very quick
kind of iteration cycle.
So that you can mess with stuff and
immediately see the results and
mess with stuff and immediately see the
results, and you don't have those moments
in between to just ponder the nature of
existence and your life and its choices.
So basically just a win-win.